A Brief Daily Practice of Damdrip Nyepa Kunsel
arranged by Trulshik Rinpoche

The Preliminaries: Refuge and Bodhicitta
chok sum lamar kyab su chi
In the guru and Three Jewels, I take refuge.
dro la pen chir metsek gom
For the benefit of all beings, I shall meditate on Ucchuṣma.1
Three times
Main Practice
tongpé ngang lé kechik gi
From the state of emptiness, instantly,
natsok pé nyi den tengdu
Upon lotus and sun disc seats,
rangnyi tro chen metsek ni
I appear as the great wrathful Ucchuṣma,
ting nak özer kün trowa
Dark blue in colour and emanating rays of light,
chak nyi tukkar dikdzub dzé
With two hands at my heart displaying the threatening mudrā,
trowö chaluk dzokpar gom
And complete with all the attributes of a wrathful heruka.
né sum yigé trodu lé
Through the emanation and reabsorption of syllables at my three centres,
shyitrö tsok kün chendrang tim
All the peaceful and wrathful ones are invited and dissolve into me.
tukkar pé nyir hung ting tar
At my heart upon a lotus and sun disc is a blue syllable hūṃ,
dé ngak galmé khorlo shyin
Surrounded by the mantra, whirling like a blazing firebrand.
mé yi tsatsa truk ching tro
As I recite the mantra, sparks of flame flicker and shoot out
nöjé nyamchak kün sek gyur
To burn away completely all harm and breakages of samaya.
om utsitaya torya torya soha | uta mitaya torya torya soha | mönta krotaya torya torya soha
| ako krotaya torya torya soha | abhu krotaya torya torya soha | uta shataya torya torya soha
| eling etaya torya torya soha | lamön taya torya torya soha | eni pini taya torya torya
soha | om bhurkur maha pranayé bhurtsi bhurku bimalé utsukma krodha hung pé torya torya
soha
For major defilements recite the mantra one hundred times. For average defilements recite it
seven or twenty-one times, and for minor defilements recite it seven times. It is said that
by reciting this and blowing into your nostrils, all defilements and impairments will be
vanquished like the sun dispelling darkness.
Conclusion
gé di nyamdrib kün sel né
Through this merit, may all defilements and impairments be eliminated,
dro kün pendé pal du shok
So that all beings may enjoy the splendour of benefit and happiness.

Vāgindra Dharmamati (Kyabjé Trulshik Rinpoche) added the beginning and the conclusion as an
adornment to the basic text.
↑ Ucchuṣma (Tib. sem brtsegs) is a wrathful form of Vajrapāṇi. The Sanskrit is sometimes given
as Bhurkuṃkūṭa.