Moonlight of Pacifying Amṛta
A Daily Visualization and Recitation for the Dispeller of All Samaya Corruptions and Pollutions
by Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo

namo gurūcchuṣmāya!
The visualization and recitation for the Dispeller of All Samaya Corruptions and Pollutions
is as follows:
Refuge and Bodhicitta
namo, lama chok sum yidam lhar
Namo! In the guru, the Three Jewels, and the yidam deity,
güpé kyab chi khanyam dro
With deepest devotion I take refuge.
lamé changchub nyur tob chir
So that I and all beings, in numbers limitless as the sky, reach unsurpassed awakening,
mewa tsekpa gompar gyi
I shall practice Ucchuṣma, ‘Desiccating Fire’.
Recite this, three times.
Visualization
oṃ mahā-śūnyatā-jñāna-vajra-svabhāvātmako ’ham ||
tongpé ngang lé kechik gi
From the state of emptiness, instantly,
natsok pé nyi den tengdu
Upon lotus and sun disc seats,1
rangnyi tro chen metsek ni
I meditate upon myself as the great, wrathful Ucchuṣma,
tingnak özer kün trowa
Dark blue in colour and emanating rays of light,
chak nyi tukkar dikdzub dzé
With two hands at my heart displaying the threatening mudrā,
trowö chaluk dzokpar gom
And complete with all the attributes of a wrathful heruka.
né sum yigé trodu lé
Through the emanation and reabsorption of syllables at my three centres,
shyitrö tsok kün chendrang tim
I invite all the peaceful and wrathful ones and dissolve them into myself.
tukkar pé nyir sabön tar
At my heart, upon a lotus and sun disc,
dé ngak galmé khorlo shyin
Is a seed syllable surrounded by the mantra, which whirls like a blazing firebrand.
mé yi tsatsa truk ching tro
As I recite the mantra, sparks flicker and shoot out
nöjé nyamchak kün sek gyur
To burn away completely all harmful lapses and breakages of samaya.
Visualize this and recite the mantra:2
om i sa ca taya torya torya soha | u ta mi ṭaya torya torya soha | mön ta krodhaya torya torya
soha | a ka krodhaya torya torya soha | a bhu krodhaya torya torya soha | u ta sha taya
torya torya soha | é ling é taya torya torya soha | la mön taya torya torya soha | a sa ni
bi sa ni taya torya torya soha |om bhur kur mahapranaya bhur ci bhur ki vimala ucchushma
krodharaja hum pé | torya torya soha ||
For the daily practice, recite the mantra one hundred times or more, in silence. For the practice
of approach, accumulate the mantra ten thousand times. And for the practice of accomplishment,
recite the mantra forty thousand times.
When you rise from this meditation, conclude with:
gewa di yi nyurdu dak
Through this merit, may I swiftly
mewa tsekpa drub gyur né
Attain the realization of Ucchuṣma,
drowa chik kyang malüpa
And thereby may every single sentient being
dé yi sa la göpar shok
Likewise reach this state of perfection!
Conclude with prayers of dedication and aspiration.
If you wish to make defilement-cleansing water, first perform this visualization and recitation
as a preliminary. Once you have blessed your saliva through reciting the mantra, spit
into the water to be blessed, all the while imagining your spit as a liquified spark of fire
that dissolves into the water, causing it to boil and become charged with the cleansing
capacity. If you and others drink and wash with this water, all defilements and impurities
will be cleansed.
Blessing the herbs to be used for smoke-offering, such as juniper, with the mantra, and likewise
those that grow in sacred places, sāla-tree resin, grass-leaf sweet flag, and ajania
tenuifolia, and using them as incense, is the very best way to purify defilements. More detailed
instructions on this can be found in other texts.
As for dispelling the samaya defilements that disrupt the generation stage practice, it is stated:
Without a method for dispelling samaya defilements during the generation stage,
Conflicts, samaya corruptions, impurities,
A decline in the life-force, and obscurations of all the paths and bhūmis can occur.
The supreme method for dispelling these defilements is none other than your yidam deity.3
As stated above, generating the firm vajra pride of whichever is your main yidam deity will
be sufficient to dispel samaya corruptions. Nevertheless, if you wish to do the self-visualization
as Ucchuṣma, perform this visualization and recitation as a preliminary. Then recite:
lar yang rang gi tukké sabön gyi
Once again, sparks of wisdom fire shoot forth
özer na lé yeshe mé jungwé
From the seed-syllable radiating light within my heart,
nyamdrib mi tsang tamché tul gyi sek
Incinerating all samaya corruptions and impurities.
om lé namnang shyalyé khang du gyur
Oṃ, the nature of Vairocana, is the celestial palace.
ah lenang ba tayé pé nyi teng
Āḥ, the nature of Amitābha, is the lotus and sun-disc seat.
hung lé kyerim yongdrub nyingpo dé
Hūṃ is the complete visualization. Recite these syllables.4
Visualize this accordingly, and recite as much as you can:
om ah hung
oṃ āḥ hūṃ
Conclude with prayers of dedication and aspiration.

This condensed daily practice was extracted from the profound treasures of Prajñāraśmi,5 tamer
of beings, by Jamyang Khyentsé Wangpo. Virtue!

| Lhasey Lotsawa Translations (trans. Stefan Mang, ed. Libby Hogg), 2021. Reviewed by Han Kop.

Source: 'jam dbyangs mkhyen brtse'i dbang po. “grol thig lha sna tshogs sgrub thabs las/ dam
grib nyes pa kun sel gyi sgom bzlas rgyun khyer zhi byed bdud rtsi'i zla snang zhes bya ba
bzhugs so” in mkhyen brtse'i dbang po’i gsung 'bum. 25 vols. Gangtok: rdzong gsar dgon pa'i
par khang, 1977–1980. W21807 Vol. 14 (pha): 176–178.

Version: 1.0-20210611
↑ This visualization and the following mantra come from Dispeller of All Samaya Corruptions
and Pollutions revealed by Tertön Sherab Özer. The ‘emptiness mantra’ above and the first
line of the visualization were added to Tertön Sherab Özer’s treasure by Jamyang Khyentsé
Wangpo.↑ The mantra varies slightly, depending upon the source text consulted.↑ This citation
and the following visualization comes from the Three Root’s Liberation Upon Sight (rtsa
gsum thong ba rang grol) revealed by Tertön Sherab Özer.↑ Here the syllables oṃ, āḥ and
hūṃ represent different aspects of the generation phase. Oṃ, the buddhas’ body and the nature
of Vairocana, represents the palace. Āḥ, the buddhas’ speech and the nature of Amitābha,
represents the seat. Hūṃ, the buddhas’ mind and the nature of Akṣobhya, represents the
deity (oral clarification by Lama Öpak).↑ Tertön Sherab Özer